=encoding utf8


=head1 NAME

pngtopi1 - back and forth png/pi1 image converter


=head1 SYNOPSIS

pngtopi1 [B<OPTIONS>] B<input-image> [B<output-image>]


=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h>, B<--help>, B<--usage>

Print this message and exit.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print version and copyright and exit.

=item B<-q>, B<--quiet>

Print less messages.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Print more messages.

=item B<-c> I<XY>, B<--color>=I<XY>

Select color conversion method (see description below).

=item B<-e>, B<--ste>

Use STE color quantization (4 bits per component).

=item B<-z>, B<--pcx>

Force output as a pc1, pc2 or pc3.

=item B<-r>, B<--pix>

Force output as a pi1, pi2 or pi3.

=item B<-d>, B<--same-dir>

Automatic save path includes I<< <input> >> path.

=back


=head1 DESCRIPTION

A PNG/Degas image file converter.


=head2 Operations

=over

=item B<PNG> -> B<PIx>/B<PCx>

Convert PNG image to corresponding Atari Degas image format compressed or not.

=item B<PIx>/B<PCx> -> B<PNG>

Convert Atari Degas image to PNG image.

=item B<PIx> -> B<PCx>, B<PCx> -> B<PIx>,

Convert compress or decompress Atari Degas image to its counterpart format.

=back


=head2 Input type

When creating a Degas image the <I<input>> image resolution is used
to select the <I<output>> type.

=over 9

=item B<PI1>/B<PC1>

images are 320x200x16 colors

=item B<PI2>/B<PC2>

images are 640x200x4 colors

=item B<PI3>/B<PC3>

images are 640x400x2 monochrome (B&W)

=back


=head2 Output type

If B<--pix> or B<--pcx> is specified the <I<output>> is respectively a
raw (PI?) or RLE compressed (PC?) Degas image whatever the <I<input>>
is.

If <I<input>> is a B<PNG> image the default is to create a B<PI?>
image unless a provided <I<output>> suggests otherwise.

If <I<input>> is a Degas image the default is to create a B<PNG> image
unless a provided <I<output>> suggests otherwise.

When B<pngtopi1> detects a discrepancy between a provided <I<output>>
filename extension and what is really going to be written then it
issues a warning but still process as requested. Use B<-q>/B<--quiet>
to remove the warning.


=head2 Color conversion mode

The B<X> parameter decides if a Degas image will use 3 or 4 bits
per color component.  The consequence might be the lost of a precious
colormap entry in some (rare) cases if the provided input image was
not created accordingly.

The B<Y> parameter picks the method used to upscale 3/4 bits color
component to 8 bits.

=over 4

=item B<z>

Simple Left shifting

=item B<r>

Most significant bit replication

=item B<f>

Using the full range

=back


=head1 BUGS

Report bugs at
L<pngtopi1 on github|https://github.com/benjihan/pngtopi1/issues>



=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2017-2023 Benjamin Gerard AKA Ben^OVR

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
